# On Meaning

Life is meaningful. Our choices are real and have tangible consequences, this is an interesting fact of life. Why? Because it means that we have the *real* opportunity to actually make a positive difference in the world. Or indeed, a negative one. We really don't know for sure if we will be rescued if we make bad choices - both as individuals or collectively as society. For example, do we know that our world will get rescued if we destroy it via triggering climate-change? No, we can hope all we like, but rather we have the opportunity to meaningfully make good choices as a society... The same applies on an individual level, when we're facing a challenge, temptation, or even just good times whatever we *choose* to do will have been *up to us*. Our choices are meaningful. Let's let that sink in. Our *lives* are meaningful.

I don't know whether your belief system has something like "guardian angels" built in (my worldview doesn't) - where we are hemmed in and rescued from the really hard stuff we are constantly being protected from. Maybe something like that is the case, but I for one don't think I can know that with anywhere near enough certainty to live assuming the bad choices I make will be something I would be rescued from.

The good flipside of this all being *real* and *meaningful* is that we genuinely have the *opportunity* to overcome all kinds of things. Maybe we'll fail anyway, but hey, at least we had the opportunity 🙂. I'd much rather have tried to overcome all kinds of challenges and failed than have been protected from being able to try at all.

I think this gives an interesting view on the problem of evil and suffering. The opportunity we have to *genuinely* overcome evil in our lives and in society as a whole is something that would be sorely missing in any reality that 'coddled' us or protected us so much from the real challenges that can exist in *reality*. Life can be really *really* challenging - but even then I suggest that 'filtering out' those moments of deepest challenge would cause this world to be so much less meaningful - and we'd never have the opportunity to overcome.

I'm not suggesting we'll all overcome every time, I think many of us won't (including me for sure) and will need to find comfort in others (or indeed in God). *But* we can overcome and isn't it profoundly empowering that we are each given opportunity after opportunity to overcome - and hey, we do succeed at least sometimes 🌟